---
title: "cooking is a lot like making art"
date: "2025-02-01"
category: "on-my-mind"
tags: ["cooking"]
slug: "cooking is a lot like making art"
---

The feeling I had as a kid walking through Hobby Lobby is how I feel as an adult walking the aisles of the grocery store- olive oil, spices, pickled vegetables, & fresh produce laid out like art supplies. When you’re cooking, vegetable peelers, bowls & cast iron pans become your tools.

Prepping panels and canvases to paint is like repetitive task of dicing onion, carrots and peppers. And just like with making art, by the end of cooking the kitchen is usually a mess, so the ritual of cleaning begins- closing cupboard doors, putting dishes in the sink & spices back in the drawer, then wiping down the counters.

think about it…\
plein air painting —> campfire cooking\
quick sketchbook drawing —> throwing together a lunch with random bits & bobs\
a large planned out project —> cooking for a dinner party

our go to meal lately is this [miso butter salmon](https://beginwithbalance.com/quick-and-easy-miso-butter-salmon/). we usually turn it into a salmon bowl with rice, red cabbage, avocado, jalapeños & pickled onions

we tried these [skillet pork chops](https://www.inspiredtaste.net/37062/juicy-skillet-pork-chops/) and will definitely be making them again! the flavor was amazing plus they were very easy.

I also burned a pan of homemade pot stickers this week.. 🥲

and if you aren’t eating oatmeal you’re missing out. this is my _special_ recipe ha!

- 2/3 c milk
- 2/3 c oatmeal
- 2/3 c oats
- brown sugar
- chia seeds
- frozen raspberries
- pb, shredded coconut, or hemp hearts (if you’re feeling fancy)

add the liquid and oats to a pan on med-high heat. stir it until it starts to thicken. I like my oatmeal kinda soupy so I don’t cook it as long. After you’ve put it in a bowl sprinkle it with brown sugar (this goes first so it can start to melt), then chia seeds, frozen raspberries & any other topping you want to add.

_some cooking tools I’ve been thinking about:_

- a rectangle pizza stone so we can can cook pizza & bagels? on the grill
- popsicle molds, would frozen yogurt popsicles work?
- I want to make a snack platter [like this](https://www.instagram.com/p/CxFwiiku4-I/?img_index=1) so bad
- I just learned about [this silverware](https://food52.com/shop/products/11718-sabre-bistrot-flatware-shiny-finish?sku=38590&epik=dj0yJnU9Q2lxZTdaWHpBNGNDZUpaQk91NnlqNjQ5MUV0WnpYWlomcD0wJm49UjRnNlFNMGVIS1lORHU5WGxZYU8tdyZ0PUFBQUFBR2VlaG9n) & wow the french really nailed it
- we started using cloth napkins at dinner and I love it
