---
title: "a list of things I want to make"
date: "2025-10-01"
category: "on-my-mind"
tags: []
slug: "a list of things I want to make"
---

I always have a running list of things I want to make/do and sometimes it helps to move them out of my brain and onto paper. I'm already thinking ahead to 2026 and how/when I'm going to make some of these happen

- **STICKER SHEETS**-
  I really need to ask my local print shop if they print die cut sticker sheets. I've been seeing so many fun images of fish and bugs and they would be so fun as stickers.
- **PHOTO BOOKS**-
  I'm really intrigued with the idea of documenting life in a physical way. It's great to take pictures but I want to curate the photos with fun notes and written memories and then print them out in book form (much easier said than done). My 2025 goal was to get my photo storage in order so I could start doing this andddd we made it to Q4 and I still haven't figured out the photo storage situation.. I'm working on it, but it's been much slower than I would liked.
- **ANOTHER QUILTt**-
  it's funny I have this on the list and I'm not even done with the current quilt I'm working on. But it's turned out so good, plus I already bought so lovely colors so lookout for another quilt in 2026
- **QUILT DESIGN TOOL**-
  speaking of quilts figma is my go to resource for mocking up my quilts and I really want to create a tool that helps other people design unique quilts too
- **ELASTIC WAIST PANTS**-
  I should have access to serger in 2026 and I'm determined to make myself a pair of pants. I attemped shorts in 2025, but quickly realized that sewing clothes really isn't fun when you don't have a serger
- **QUILTED COAT/VEST**-
  I anticipate I'd get a lot of wear out of a quilted coat or vest next year
- **DINNER PARTY**-
  maybe a birthday dinner, maybe a summer picnic, either way I want to be the creative director for a full blown dinner party
- **MARBLED PAPER**-
  imagine sets of marbled postcards or greeting cards. Trust me, your friends want to get pretty mail!
- **FLEECE BEANIES**-
  I've seen a few patterns floating around the internet, and think it could be a pretty quick & easy sew.. but now that I've said that watch it end up breaking my machine
